This text is from:
https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/General_Astronomy
===========================================
General Astronomy

Astronomy is the scientific study of celestial bodies in the visible universe,
from the scale of a few meters to the macro     scale, including: the
underlying physics governing those bodies, what they are made of, their
properties, distribution, relation, distance, movement, creation, age and
demise.

Our understanding of the universe has dramatically improved due to the progress
of technology. Astronomy has been one of the most modernized areas of
scientific study, but it is also one of the oldest sciences — practiced by
all ancient civilizations to some degree. Sadly, people have increasingly
started to lose connection with the observable universe, something that was
previously even required for measuring time, and defining seasons. Astronomy is
among our species' first technological steps, but today only passingly remarked
about when it verifies something thought about in theoretical physics. Even in
a highly industrialized global civilization, defined by consumerism only a few
of us had the chance to go beyond simple images and concepts and have a
practical experience a practical experience in considering what is around our
blue dot and its implications for us.

This Wikibook introduces the reader to that tapestry and the process that
revealed it to humanity. It presents astronomy not only as a field of
knowledge, but also as a human endeavor in science.

The Big Picture

The universe is a big place — too big for us to comprehend. But how big?
Astronomers have struggled with this question for millennia, and their view of
the known universe has steadily grown to immense and incomprehensible sizes.
It’s an important question, and a basic part of our grasp of the universe
itself. To study astronomy, it’s essential to understand what’s out there,
how everything relates, and where we fit in the universe. The problem is that
the size scales, the relative general sizes of classes of objects, are too
foreign for things much larger than Earth. In a big universe, this can be a
challenge. To tackle the problem, let's try to connect the familiar life-size
world around us with the unfamiliar cosmic size scales.
Craie1.jpg

If you're a student, you probably watch your instructor write on the chalkboard
almost every day. The chalkboard is something you're much more familiar with
than the whole universe because you can see it and touch it. You know the size
of the board, the chalk, the markings, the eraser, and so on because they’re
right at hand. How much bigger is the board than a dot made on the board with a
piece of chalk? It turns out that the answer is about a thousand, for an
average sized chalkboard, and a fair sized chalk dot.

Now let's consider something that's a thousand times the size of a blackboard.
A blackboard is a few meters across, so we want to think about something a few
kilometers across. That's something like the size of a small city. If a city is
1000 times larger than a chalkboard and a chalkboard is 1000 times larger than
the mark on a chalkboard, that's a useful connection that helps us think about
the size of a city: we can say that the chalkboard in the city is like the mark
on the chalkboard.

In this way we will now step out from the city into the larger universe. With
each step, we will consider something (very roughly) a thousand times larger
than the last step. As we move out, each stop in our journey will be much
smaller than the next, like a mark on a chalkboard.

A city is much larger than the blackboard we used as a reference point, but
it's still something we are very familiar with. Many people drive across part
of their home city and back again every day. It's possible to drive through
most small cities in a half hour or so, even with stoplights, and it only takes
a few hours to walk from one end to the other. As promised, the next step out
will be much larger and farther from our everyday experience. Our next stop
will have a size of several thousand kilometers, and that's the size of Earth.

In a car, you can drive across a city in less than an hour, even at a slow
speed. If you could drive around the Earth at a speed of 60 miles per hour (100
kilometers per hour), going day and night over land and water, it would take a
full 17 days. Remember, driving through a small city at 60 miles per hour would
only take a few minutes. Seventeen days is much, much longer than a few
minutes. The fastest jets, which have a top speed of about 2,000 miles (3,200
km) per hour, can make the trip around the world much faster. At that speed,
you could circle the Earth in 11 hours. Even speeds like that will quickly
become inadequate as we continue moving out into the universe.

The size of Earth is typical of the sizes of the rocky planets, the terrestrial
planets, but planets made mostly of gas such as Jupiter and Saturn are larger
by a factor of several to ten. In general, we can expect the same kinds of
things to have similar properties. Given no other information about a planet,
we might guess its radius to be the same as Earth's. If we knew that our
imaginary planet were a much larger gas giant, we might change our estimate and
guess that the planet has the same radius as say, Saturn.

This size scale represents the vast majority of human experience. Only a small
number of people have ever been in Earth orbit, and these people remained very
close to Earth. Most of the satellites launched remain very close to Earth. The
shuttle, for example, orbits at an altitude of only a few hundred kilometers
— a few percent of the radius of Earth. Some spacecraft are sent to other
planets or to the Moon, but the majority stay at the scale of this step in our
journey. Only 24 people — the Apollo astronauts — have ever left Earth's
orbit to visit the next stop on our journey.
This illustration shows the Earth and the Moon scaled to their relative sizes
and distances. The two are very small and far apart, and the Earth-Moon system
is surrounded by a huge expanse of empty space. This view is only a small piece
of the fifth step in our journey, and Earth is already becoming very tiny.

As we continue to move out, we reach a size of about 1000 times the distance
around the Earth. The distance to the Moon is about 30 times the diameter of
Earth, so the Moon is easily within reach in this step, but there's little else
in the remaining distance. The nearest planets, Mars and Venus, are out of our
reach. Aside from the Earth and Moon, we find the space in the neighborhood of
Earth to be almost completely empty, with only the occasional passage of an
asteroid or comet.

Although the Moon seems nearby when we consider the huge space surrounding the
Earth-Moon system, we should remember that the Earth and Moon are really very
far apart. If we could get in a car and drive to the Moon, the trip would take
five months of driving nonstop — 24 hours a day and seven days a week. If our
jet could go to the Moon, it would take five days to get there. These trips are
becoming longer now, but they're still manageable. The trip by foot is much
longer, though — a walk to the Moon would take nine years! Light travels
faster than anything else in the universe. It has a speed of 300,000 kilometers
(186,000 miles) per second. At this speed, light can travel to the Moon in just
over one second. This distance, the distance light travels in one second, is
called a light-second.
This mosaic image of the Sun and six planets was taken by the Voyager
spacecraft from beyond the planets. Earth is barely visible as a blue dot in
one of the frames, almost lost in the glare from sunlight. The Voyager
spacecraft, which view the orbits of the planets from outside, are the most
distant man-made objects from Earth. Notice that the two terrestrial planets,
Venus and Earth, are much nearer the Sun than the others.

Another step out will extend our reach to most of the planets. We now encompass
the bulk of the Solar System, the system comprising the Sun and all of the
objects orbiting around it. This size scale is about five billion kilometers
across, 30 times the distance between the Earth and the Sun. The distance from
the Earth to the Sun is a convenient standard for measurement in the Solar
System, so astronomers use the average Earth-Sun distance as a standard unit
called the astronomical unit (AU). One astronomical unit is equal to about 93
million miles or 150 million kilometers. We can say that we are now working at
a size scale of 30 astronomical units, or 30 AU for short. A box this size
centered on the Earth would comfortably fit Saturn's orbit, but Uranus, Neptune
and Pluto are still too far away. For much of human history, none of the Solar
System objects outside of this box were known to exist.

Remember that our size scale has increased from the last step by a huge factor,
a factor of 1000. Using our jet to take a trip from Earth to Saturn would take
about fifty years. Light takes about 80 minutes to travel from Saturn to Earth,
depending on where Earth and Saturn are in their orbits. Because it takes so
long for light to make the trip from Saturn, the light we see from the planet
at a given moment actually left 80 minutes ago. This means that we don't see
Saturn as it is presently, but as it was 80 minutes ago. This also means that
looking out into space is like looking back in time. The farther we look, the
older the light. This is not very important for Saturn, but it will become more
important as the size scale increases.

As before, we can use the speed of light as a measure of distance. A
light-second is the distance light travels in one second. Likewise, a
light-minute is the distance light travels in one minute. That means that
Saturn is 80 light-minutes away. In the same way, we could write that Saturn is
1.3 light-hours away, and that's about the same as Saturn's distance from the
Sun. Saturn's orbit is much bigger than Earth's orbit, which is only 8
light-minutes in radius. This is a striking and important fact about the Solar
System — the rocky planets, the terrestrial planets, orbit close to the Sun
and close to each other, but the giant gas planets, the Jovian planets, orbit
at greater distances and have more widely spaced orbits.

The next step in our journey will encompass a distance of 30,000 AU, or half a
light-year. Although this step completely encloses the planets, Solar System
objects are found at much greater distances. These objects form the Oort cloud
— a vast, sparse region of comets surrounding the Sun. The Oort cloud is
almost empty, but it's there just the same. At this step we've only covered a
piece of the range of influence of the Sun, and plenty of Oort cloud remains
out of our reach. The Oort cloud is thought to extend out from the Sun as much
as two light-years.

If we look just beyond this step, we find the nearest star, Proxima Centauri,
at about four light-years. It will take Voyager 1 and 2 80,000 years to reach
this star. (These ships, launched in 1977, have a speed of 51,500 km/hour.) As
other stars enter into the picture, the Sun will no longer be the dominant
source of gravity. This means that we can expect the solar system to really end
as we begin approaching other stars.

Our next step out places us in a 500 light-year box. This size scale is easily
large enough to fit the Sun, Alpha Centauri, and many other stars. In fact,
about 250,000 stars are within 500 light-years of Earth. Astronomers refer to
this region as the Solar Neighborhood. As we've seen, the stars in the Milky
Way are very far apart, with vast stretches of mostly empty space separating
them.

Stars in the Solar Neighborhood (and throughout space) are mostly small and
faint. If these fainter stars were much farther away, they would be too faint
to see from Earth. Much brighter stars are more rare, but they can be seen from
much farther away. Because of this, two "kinds" of stars fill the sky as viewed
from Earth: stars that are intrinsically faint but nearby, and stars that are
bright and more distant.
This painting illustrates how the Milky Way might look if it could be viewed
from outside. It has a bright central bar with four spiral arms coming out from
the center. Individual stars are much too small and faint to see in this
picture.

As we continue outward in our journey, we see the random scattering of stars
form into a pattern. Spiral structure emerges, and we see that the Earth, the
Solar System, and nearby stars are collected together into an orderly system of
stars called a galaxy. Our galaxy is called the Milky Way Galaxy.

Like the Solar System, the Galaxy is shaped like a flat disk, but the Galaxy is
much bigger. Our galaxy contains hundreds of billions of stars, and the Solar
System is only one member contained inside. The Sun is located in the spiral
arms of the galaxy about two thirds of the way from the center, and it orbits
around the center of the galaxy with all the other stars. If the Milky Way were
fifty miles long, the Solar System would only be a dot the size of the tip of a
ball point pen. In actuality, the Galaxy is 100,000 light-years across, but
only a few thousand light-years thick.

As we start out towards the next step, we see other galaxies like the Milky Way
begin to appear. Compared to stars in the Milky Way, galaxies are packed
together much more closely, and collisions between galaxies are much more
common. The Andromeda Galaxy, the nearest galaxy to the Milky Way, is 2.5
million light-years away and on a collision course for Earth. Don't panic,
though, as the collision won't happen for another 3 billion years.

At a size scale not much larger than our last, we see that the galaxies are
clumped together. These galaxy clusters typically have hundreds of galaxies and
are millions of light years across. Galaxies orbit around the center of their
clusters. The Milky Way is a member of the Virgo Cluster. It orbits near the
edge of the Cluster, so we can see much of its center in a small region of the
sky in the direction of the constellation Virgo. Presently, the Milky Way is
moving away from the center of the Virgo Cluster. In the distant future,
however, the Cluster's pull will slow the Milky Way and draw it inward.

Although our reach now includes many more objects, the size scale of galaxy
clusters still does not represent an expansion over the last size scale by a
factor of 1000. We have not fully reached the next step in our journey until we
come to the scale of hundreds of millions of light years. At this scale, even
the galaxy clusters form clusters. These groups of galaxy clusters are called
superclusters. A supercluster may contain hundreds of thousands of galaxies.
The Virgo Cluster is a member of a supercluster called the Virgo Supercluster.

Light from the edge of our 500 million light-year reach has traveled for 500
million years before reaching us. This means that we see the Virgo Supercluster
as it was 500 million years ago. Five hundred million years can be a long time,
but it isn't really long enough for the universe to have changed significantly.
Even though the light is old, the universe at the edge of the Virgo
Supercluster still looks much like the universe nearby.
This artist's conception shows a schematic of the Hubble volume as if you could
look "down" on it from "above". In reality, this view is impossible because an
observer will always see the Hubble sphere as if from the center, regardless of
location in the universe. This happens because the edge of the Hubble sphere is
made by light emitted from a great distance when the universe was very young.
The Virgo Supercluster is the small dot at the center of the image, circled in
blue.

As we continue out from the 500 million light-year size scale, we see older and
older parts of the universe. As the distance becomes very large, we begin
seeing billions of years into the past, and big changes in the Universe as a
whole become important. Going further and further back, we see the formation of
the first galaxy clusters, galaxies, and stars. Eventually, we see the universe
so young that no stars have formed yet. Before the first stars formed, the
Universe was cool and dense enough for the loose, unused gas in space to block
visible light. Beyond this, we can't see any further. The contents inside this
wall are called the Hubble volume, or the Observable Universe. There's no way
to observe objects outside of this volume because the light from these distant
objects hasn't reached us yet.

The Universe extends out infinitely, but our view is limited to the Hubble
volume. Trying to visit the edge of the Hubble volume is impossible. You'll
never reach it because it's only an illusion. If you tried to visit the
location where we see the edge of the Hubble volume, you would see the universe
around you as it is today, not billions of years ago, and you would see the
edge of the Hubble volume all around you, billions of light years away.

Extending out further inevitably delves into the pages of theory and crosses
the line dividing what we have seen and what we cannot see. Some have theorised
that the universe itself does not comprise all of existence, and that there may
be other universes with different physical laws existing together in clusters
and groups in a multiverse.

As we go further and further out, many note that there must be an edge, an end,
a border of reality. Others have speculated that the universe, or the
multiverse it sits in, is simply infinite, and has no such boundaries. However,
at this point in time, there can be no absolution, no definite answer to these
questions.

Much remains unknown about what the Universe is like, but our picture has
evolved dramatically since humanity first began asking questions about the
world around it. Armed with curiosity and the tools of science, astronomers
have investigated the heavens for centuries, and their work continues today.

